GroupDocs/Coursera_RProgramming/RProgrammingDoc.md, before:

# Coursera Course - R Programming
*4th August - 1st September 2014*

For markdown hints, check out RStudio's quick reference (or check out this: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet though it can be confusing...)

## Course Info: 
https://www.coursera.org/course/rprog

## Who is Enrolled? 
(Please add any additional contact details you’d like to share below your name)

* Elspeth Haston
    * e.haston@rbge.org.uk
    * @emhaston
    * emhaston on GitHub
* Robyn Drinkwater
    * redrinkwater@gmail.com
    * @RobynDrinkwater
    * redrinkwater on GitHub
* David Purvis
    * davidalexpurvis@gmail.com
    * DavidPurvis on GitHub
* Catherine Kidner
    * c.kidner@rbge.ac.uk
    * ckidner on GitHub
* Felicity Anderson
    * f.anderson@rbge.ac.uk
    * @Flic_Anderson
    * FlicAnderson on GitHub


## Meet-Ups:

### Next suggested meet-up : 

**Next meet-up Wednesday 27th August 2014, 3.15pm, canteen**   
For discussion:

### Previous meet-ups: 

*20th August, 3.15pm, canteen*   
Topics:
* Upcoming deadlines - what's due when?
   * Programming assignment 2 (peer evaluated, so no late days can be applied!) - DUE Mon 25 Aug 12:30 am (BST)
   * Quiz 3 - DUE Mon 25 Aug 12:30 am (BST)
* Programming Assignment 1 - how did it go?
    * post-event code debrief? ^_^
    * any particularly tricky concepts that we could go over?
* Programming Assignment 2 - has anyone started?  Any tips?
    * submit via github so need to fork the repo & clone to your local machine - is everyone confident with this?
    * will be assessed on whether there's >1 commit, so remember to periodically commit for the marker's sake & yours!
    * 
* Quiz 2 debrief
* Swirl - useful?
* Any progress on the S: drive storage place?
    * Or is the best thing a shared dropbox or similar if it won't be accessible by non-RBGE staff?
    * Any other ideas?
* How are people finding Fufluns shared repo? 
    * is everyone aware of it?  @emhaston?
    * finding pulling/commiting/pushing alright? @redrinkwater & @DavidPurvis
* Any progress on an RBGE repo? :D
* Any cool shares/ R news? 
    * [{cowsay} package!](https://gist.github.com/FlicAnderson/8d57a49e93a240b9060d) - make not very serious ascii fortunes/art for your console & more interesting error messages

*15th Aug  - afternoon coffee, 3.15pm, canteen*   
Topics:
* First quiz issues and questions
* upcoming deadlines
* Programming assignment 1
    * Week 2 quiz
    * Storage place on S drive: Training
* ~~Github the R programming Google document~~^DONE
* ~~Flic: Upload the .R quiz 1 answers~~^DONE 
* Gists -Flic to add info about this and how they work since it's helpful for sharing code snippets
* Swirl -quite helpful, though basic
* Share code/link 

*8th Aug  - afternoon coffee, 3.15pm, canteen*   
Topics:
* RD and EH met up


### Software Versions:

Flic is currently using the following (in 64bit Windows 7): 
* Git - v1.9.2
* RStudio - v0.98.507
* R (32bit)- v3.1.0  (needed to change setting in RStudio global options to use 32bit instead of 64bit R)
* Rtools - Rtools31
However I already had most of these installed (except Rtools) so they may not be the versions recommended by the course.

Elspeth is using the following (in 64bit Windows 7):
* 64bit R - v3.0.0 (have not yet seen if I’ll have the same problem with RStudio - thanks for the tip) I also have 32bit R i386 v3.0.0 (so I guess I may be able to use this?)
* Git - v1.9.0

Catherine is using (in Mac 10.9.3, and Linux a bit I hope)
* R 2.13.2
* RStudio - v0.98.507
* Git 1.8.5.2 (Apple Git-48) 
I already hate Git as the push I tried was rejected. (Hi Catherine, see my note below - you probably had the same problem I had, Elspeth)

Robyn is using the following  (in 64bit Windows 7):
* R v3.1.0 - seem to have both 32 and 64 bit available
* RStudio - v0.98.507 (32bit)
* Git 1.9.4

David is using the following  (in Mac 10.7.5):
* R v3.1.1
* RStudio - v0.98.507 (32bit)
* Git 1.9.4


### Week 1 Notes: 


### Week 2 Notes: 


### Week 3 Notes:  


### Assignment 1 notes:

I struggled with the first step of Assignment one, but found this document very useful! 
https://github.com/derekfranks/practice_assignment/blob/master/Practice_Assignment.pdf

### Course Project Notes: 


### Handy Tips: 
Feel free to share any resources or information you’ve found useful in doing this course!


### Useful Sites:

* R-bloggers - R news & tutorials - http://www.r-bloggers.com/

Commit message:

added a couple of links I found handy while doing Programming Assignment 2

GroupDocs/Coursera_RProgramming/RProgrammingDoc.md, after:

# Coursera Course - R Programming
*4th August - 1st September 2014*

For markdown hints, check out RStudio's quick reference (or check out this: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet though it can be confusing...)

## Course Info: 
https://www.coursera.org/course/rprog

## Who is Enrolled? 
(Please add any additional contact details you’d like to share below your name)

* Elspeth Haston
    * e.haston@rbge.org.uk
    * @emhaston
    * emhaston on GitHub
* Robyn Drinkwater
    * redrinkwater@gmail.com
    * @RobynDrinkwater
    * redrinkwater on GitHub
* David Purvis
    * davidalexpurvis@gmail.com
    * DavidPurvis on GitHub
* Catherine Kidner
    * c.kidner@rbge.ac.uk
    * ckidner on GitHub
* Felicity Anderson
    * f.anderson@rbge.ac.uk
    * @Flic_Anderson
    * FlicAnderson on GitHub


## Meet-Ups:

### Next suggested meet-up : 

**Next meet-up Wednesday 27th August 2014, 3.15pm, canteen**   
For discussion:

### Previous meet-ups: 

*20th August, 3.15pm, canteen*   
Topics:
* Upcoming deadlines - what's due when?
   * Programming assignment 2 (peer evaluated, so no late days can be applied!) - DUE Mon 25 Aug 12:30 am (BST)
   * Quiz 3 - DUE Mon 25 Aug 12:30 am (BST)
* Programming Assignment 1 - how did it go?
    * post-event code debrief? ^_^
    * any particularly tricky concepts that we could go over?
* Programming Assignment 2 - has anyone started?  Any tips?
    * submit via github so need to fork the repo & clone to your local machine - is everyone confident with this?
    * will be assessed on whether there's >1 commit, so remember to periodically commit for the marker's sake & yours!
    * 
* Quiz 2 debrief
* Swirl - useful?
* Any progress on the S: drive storage place?
    * Or is the best thing a shared dropbox or similar if it won't be accessible by non-RBGE staff?
    * Any other ideas?
* How are people finding Fufluns shared repo? 
    * is everyone aware of it?  @emhaston?
    * finding pulling/commiting/pushing alright? @redrinkwater & @DavidPurvis
* Any progress on an RBGE repo? :D
* Any cool shares/ R news? 
    * [{cowsay} package!](https://gist.github.com/FlicAnderson/8d57a49e93a240b9060d) - make not very serious ascii fortunes/art for your console & more interesting error messages

*15th Aug  - afternoon coffee, 3.15pm, canteen*   
Topics:
* First quiz issues and questions
* upcoming deadlines
* Programming assignment 1
    * Week 2 quiz
    * Storage place on S drive: Training
* ~~Github the R programming Google document~~^DONE
* ~~Flic: Upload the .R quiz 1 answers~~^DONE 
* Gists -Flic to add info about this and how they work since it's helpful for sharing code snippets
* Swirl -quite helpful, though basic
* Share code/link 

*8th Aug  - afternoon coffee, 3.15pm, canteen*   
Topics:
* RD and EH met up


### Software Versions:

Flic is currently using the following (in 64bit Windows 7): 
* Git - v1.9.2
* RStudio - v0.98.507
* R (32bit)- v3.1.0  (needed to change setting in RStudio global options to use 32bit instead of 64bit R)
* Rtools - Rtools31
However I already had most of these installed (except Rtools) so they may not be the versions recommended by the course.

Elspeth is using the following (in 64bit Windows 7):
* 64bit R - v3.0.0 (have not yet seen if I’ll have the same problem with RStudio - thanks for the tip) I also have 32bit R i386 v3.0.0 (so I guess I may be able to use this?)
* Git - v1.9.0

Catherine is using (in Mac 10.9.3, and Linux a bit I hope)
* R 2.13.2
* RStudio - v0.98.507
* Git 1.8.5.2 (Apple Git-48) 
I already hate Git as the push I tried was rejected. (Hi Catherine, see my note below - you probably had the same problem I had, Elspeth)

Robyn is using the following  (in 64bit Windows 7):
* R v3.1.0 - seem to have both 32 and 64 bit available
* RStudio - v0.98.507 (32bit)
* Git 1.9.4

David is using the following  (in Mac 10.7.5):
* R v3.1.1
* RStudio - v0.98.507 (32bit)
* Git 1.9.4


### Week 1 Notes: 


### Week 2 Notes: 


### Week 3 Notes:  


### Assignment 1 notes:

I struggled with the first step of Assignment one, but found this document very useful! 
https://github.com/derekfranks/practice_assignment/blob/master/Practice_Assignment.pdf

### Assignment 2 notes: 

Flic: I found [this tutorial](http://adv-r.had.co.nz/Functions.html) by Hadley Wickham (one of the pantheon of R gods) to be quite useful background for getting my head into the Lexical Scoping zone and thinking about environments and things, although it goes way past what this assignment requires when it describes the Lexical scoping and things!  But it's quite a useful resource anyway.

Flic: I also found the comments on the discussion board quite handy in helping me get my head around exactly what the means example was doing, which was @redrinkwater's handy tip!  For testing my finished functions, I found [this thread](https://class.coursera.org/rprog-006/forum/thread?thread_id=727) quite useful for some example calls to see if I got what I expected, since I wasn't quite clear on how the input worked at first.  [This one](https://class.coursera.org/rprog-006/forum/thread?thread_id=626) was also quite helpful on breaking down the example a little if you really can't fathom it.


### Course Project Notes: 


### Handy Tips: 
Feel free to share any resources or information you’ve found useful in doing this course!


### Useful Sites:

* R-bloggers - R news & tutorials - http://www.r-bloggers.com/
